README.md, before:

# Voyager Forms

__The Missing Form Module for The Missing Laravel Admin.__

This [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) package adds dynamic form creation and shortcode insertion to a [Voyager](https://laravelvoyager.com/) project.

- Create & manage forms and their fields (add fields, drag/drop into order etc)
- Output forms on the frontend with an simple shortcode (`{!! forms(<FORM_ID>) !!}`)
- Each form's output on the frontend are overridable with custom layouts
- All submissions are emailed inside overridable HTML email templates
- All submissions are backed up to the database and accessible under Voyager Admins > Forms > Enquiries

Built by [Pivotal Agency](https://pivotal.agency/).

---

## Prerequisites

- Node & NPM Installed
- Composer Installed
- [Install Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/installation)
- [Install Voyager](https://github.com/the-control-group/voyager)
- [Install Voyager Front-end](https://github.com/pvtl/voyager-frontend)

---

## Installation

```bash
# 1. Require this Package in your fresh Laravel/Voyager project
composer require pvtl/voyager-forms

# 2. Run the Installer
composer dump-autoload && php artisan voyager-forms:install

# 3. Configure to/from addresses
        -> Navigate to Admin -> Settings -> 'Forms' tab
        -> Adjust values
        -> Note: If you leave `Default Enquiry To Email` blank and set no email in the form setting, email will not be sent
        
# 4. Configure "MAIL" environment variables

# 5. (optional) Add Google invisible reCAPTCHA
        -> Navigate to Admin -> Settings -> 'Admin' tab
        -> Insert Google reCATPCHA keys 

``` 

---

## Displaying Forms

You can easily display your created forms on the front-end in any kind of output - we use shortcodes to render our forms so go ahead and add `{!! forms(1) !!}` to a page/post to see the default Contact form appear.

---

## Form Hooks

You may also wish to include custom logic and functionality when your form has been submitted (but before the submission has saved to the DB - eg. so that you can execute custom validation). This can be done with a __Form Hook__ Block - simply specify your controllers namespace'd path and the method you wish to call and the Voyager Forms module will automatically execute it upon submission. For example:

```php
Pvtl\AwesomeModule\Somewhere\ClassName::anExampleHey('hello world')
```

_Note that in the above example, the first param of the actual method will be the submission data and the second param will be 'hello world'_

---

## Custom Form Output

This module outputs forms on the frontend in a basic structure. However you have the ability to build your own form layouts very easily.

#### A completely custom layout:

- Create a new blade template in `views/vendor/voyager-forms/layouts`
- Edit the form in Voyager Admin and select the new layout you created

To get a completely custom output, you'll likely need to define the `<form>` html including each form field individually.

#### Override fields

You also have the ability to override `views/vendor/voyager-forms/forms/render.blade.php` to change the way form fields are styled.

---

## Custom Email Templates

This module sends a generic looking email with each submission. However you have the ability to build your own email templates very easily.

- Create a new blade template in `views/vendor/voyager-forms/email-templates` (you can also simply override `default.blade.php` in the same location)
- Edit the form in Voyager Admin and select the appropriate email template

---

## Using Input Types

Most of the input types are fairly self-explanatory. Two non-standard fields are the submit and group fields. Here's how to use them:

#### Group
You can group your form fields by using two group fields. The label of the first group field will be the title of your grouped fields. You can add your custom css class which will be added to both the grouped field title span and the grouped field div that encapsulates the fields just like any other form element. The default respective classes are .groupedInput and .groupedInputTitle. Because the package doesn't come with any CSS, we encourage you to style both of these classes in your application.

You will need to create a 'group' field in the form builder both where you want your grouped fields to start, and end. If you are missing a closing group field it will be closed at the end of your form automatically. 

#### Submit 
You can customize the submit button's text and CSS of your form with the submit input field. You should put this at the end of your form builder.

Commit message:

Form fields update Added - Dynamic form fields name slugs
Fixed
- Broken default form layout handling

README.md, after:

# Voyager Forms

## Why fork?
- Added dynamic form fields slug
- Added ajax response (if `_is_ajax` param is present in the request)

__The Missing Form Module for The Missing Laravel Admin.__

This [Laravel](https://laravel.com/) package adds dynamic form creation and shortcode insertion to a [Voyager](https://laravelvoyager.com/) project.

- Create & manage forms and their fields (add fields, drag/drop into order etc)
- Output forms on the frontend with an simple shortcode (`{!! forms(<FORM_ID>) !!}`)
- Each form's output on the frontend are overridable with custom layouts
- All submissions are emailed inside overridable HTML email templates
- All submissions are backed up to the database and accessible under Voyager Admins > Forms > Enquiries

Built by [Pivotal Agency](https://pivotal.agency/).

---

## Prerequisites

- Node & NPM Installed
- Composer Installed
- [Install Laravel](https://laravel.com/docs/installation)
- [Install Voyager](https://github.com/the-control-group/voyager)
- [Install Voyager Front-end](https://github.com/pvtl/voyager-frontend)

---

## Installation

```bash
# 1. Require this Package in your fresh Laravel/Voyager project
composer require pvtl/voyager-forms

# 2. Run the Installer
composer dump-autoload && php artisan voyager-forms:install

# 3. Configure to/from addresses
        -> Navigate to Admin -> Settings -> 'Forms' tab
        -> Adjust values
        -> Note: If you leave `Default Enquiry To Email` blank and set no email in the form setting, email will not be sent
        
# 4. Configure "MAIL" environment variables

# 5. (optional) Add Google invisible reCAPTCHA
        -> Navigate to Admin -> Settings -> 'Admin' tab
        -> Insert Google reCATPCHA keys 

``` 

---

## Displaying Forms

You can easily display your created forms on the front-end in any kind of output - we use shortcodes to render our forms so go ahead and add `{!! forms(1) !!}` to a page/post to see the default Contact form appear.

---

## Form Hooks

You may also wish to include custom logic and functionality when your form has been submitted (but before the submission has saved to the DB - eg. so that you can execute custom validation). This can be done with a __Form Hook__ Block - simply specify your controllers namespace'd path and the method you wish to call and the Voyager Forms module will automatically execute it upon submission. For example:

```php
Pvtl\AwesomeModule\Somewhere\ClassName::anExampleHey('hello world')
```

_Note that in the above example, the first param of the actual method will be the submission data and the second param will be 'hello world'_

---

## Custom Form Output

This module outputs forms on the frontend in a basic structure. However you have the ability to build your own form layouts very easily.

#### A completely custom layout:

- Create a new blade template in `views/vendor/voyager-forms/layouts`
- Edit the form in Voyager Admin and select the new layout you created

To get a completely custom output, you'll likely need to define the `<form>` html including each form field individually.

#### Override fields

You also have the ability to override `views/vendor/voyager-forms/forms/render.blade.php` to change the way form fields are styled.

---

## Custom Email Templates

This module sends a generic looking email with each submission. However you have the ability to build your own email templates very easily.

- Create a new blade template in `views/vendor/voyager-forms/email-templates` (you can also simply override `default.blade.php` in the same location)
- Edit the form in Voyager Admin and select the appropriate email template

---

## Using Input Types

Most of the input types are fairly self-explanatory. Two non-standard fields are the submit and group fields. Here's how to use them:

#### Group
You can group your form fields by using two group fields. The label of the first group field will be the title of your grouped fields. You can add your custom css class which will be added to both the grouped field title span and the grouped field div that encapsulates the fields just like any other form element. The default respective classes are .groupedInput and .groupedInputTitle. Because the package doesn't come with any CSS, we encourage you to style both of these classes in your application.

You will need to create a 'group' field in the form builder both where you want your grouped fields to start, and end. If you are missing a closing group field it will be closed at the end of your form automatically. 

#### Submit 
You can customize the submit button's text and CSS of your form with the submit input field. You should put this at the end of your form builder.
